Prosodic Organization and Focus Realization in Taiwan Mandarin Cross - linguistically , the way that focus is marked through prosody can depend on a variety of factors , including local constraints on prosodic organization or the position of a word within the larger focus constituent .
Here we report on a production study that explores the possible influence of prosodic organization and position on focus realization in Taiwan Mandarin .
The materials consisted of sentences in which the syntactic subject consisted of a monosyllabic numeral , classifier , and noun .
The context was manipulated to elicit narrow information focus ( i.e. , using wh - questions ) on either the numeral , the noun , or the entire NP .
The resulting target syllables were then analyzed in terms of their F0 characteristics , duration , and amplitude .
The results revealed clear asymmetries in how the numeral and noun were realized in their corresponding singleword narrow focus condition versus in the NP focus condition , though confiding to the intrinsic tone - patterns ( e.g. , Tone 1 versus Tone 3 words showed different contours ) .
Moreover , the classifier did not always conform to its expected status when external to the focus constituent .
These results thus show that focus effects in Taiwan Mandarin can not be explained in terms of single parameter acoustic enhancement on individual focused words , and they suggest that focus marking in that variety is conditioned by independent constraints on local prosodic structure .
Introduction .
Formally , focus concerns the way that a sentence is divided into pieces of information which relate to the discourse context in distinct ways ( Krifka , 2007 ) .
While focus constituents larger than words are well - attested in many languages , existing research on the prosodic marking of focus in Chinese varieties has emphasized the relative phonetic prominence of a single word that constitutes either the subject or the object of a sentence ( e.g. , Jin , 1996;Xu , 1999;Chen & Gussenhoven , 2008;Chen , Wang , & Xu , 2008 ) .
It has been reported , for example , that narrow newinformation focus is associated with prominence in individual acoustic parameters , including longer duration ( Xu , 1999 ) , higher mean F0 ( Chen et al . , 2008 ) , or a larger F0 range ( Xu , 1999;Chen & Gussenhoven , 2008 ) .
Conflicting findings have been reported regarding whether focus constituents have a higher mean intensity ( Chen et al . , 2009vs .
Jin , 1996 ) .
Very little is known , however , about how prosodic modification may apply to larger and more complex phrasal domains in varieties of Chinese ( cf .
Chen , 2010 ) .
While prosodic correlates of focus are wellstudied for Beijing Mandarin , different patterns of focus realization have been reported for other varieties of a Chinese ( see Xu , Chen , & Wang , 2012 ) .
For example , whether post - focal compression of pitch range applies to single simple nouns in a sentence may be different between Beijing Mandarin and Taiwan Mandarin ( Chen et al . , 2014 ) , closely related Taiwan Min varieties ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) , and between Melaka and Penang Min varieties ( Huang & Hsieh , 2016 ) .
Unlike Mandarin and Min varieties , it is reported that Cantonese foci do not show post - focus F0 compression and only show greater duration and intensity ( Wu & Xu , 2010 ) .
In this study , we take a cross - representational approach , wherein we not only extend the search space from purely prominence - based marking to other phonological features such as phrase boundaries ; we also consider how such marking may be simultaneously conditioned by syntax .
To do this , we conceptualize focus in terms of focused constituents , which may consist of one or more lexical words in a more complex syntactically and semantically related morpho - syntactic structure ( numeral - classifier - noun ) ( cf .
Hsu , 2018 andHsu & Xu , 2017 ) .
We use this structure to study one variety of Mandarin ( Taiwan Mandarin , henceforth TwM ) .
This approach is in contrast to most existing approaches which consider only whether a single focused lexical word is highlighted in some way relative to its neighbors .
Given the relative lack of research on phrasing levels intermediate to the prosodic word on the one hand , and the intonation phrase on the other , this approach seeks to explore how focus marking is situated within the overall organization of the prosodic system in Taiwan Mandarin .
To do this , we conducted a production study involving sentences in which the syntactic subject consisted of a monosyllabic numeral , a classifier , and a noun .
The context was manipulated to elicit narrow information focus ( i.e. , using wh - questions ) on either the numeral , the noun , or the entire NP .
We then used various acoustic measures , including mean F0 , duration , and intensity , to test whether focus marking involved simple highlighting of words within the constituent , or whether ( i ) there was evidence for systematic marking of the edges of the focus constituent , or ( ii ) a possible influence of syntactic constituency that would lead to asymmetries in how words were prosodically realized inside versus outside of the focus constituent .
Method .
Materials .
The target items consisted of 48 sentences involving three - syllable complex nominals ( NP ) in subject position containing a monosyllabic numeral , followed by a monosyllabic measure word , and then a monosyllabic noun .
For half of the items , all three target syllables were Tone 1 ( T1 ) , and for the other half , the syllables were all Tone 3 ( T3 ) .
These items were directly adopted from part of the experimental items in Hsu ( 2018 ) .
Examples of target NPs are given in Table 1 .
To avoid possible effects of utterance - initial boundary phenomena , the target NPs were preceded by a three - syllable adverbial phrase .
Target NPs were followed by a two - syllable verb phrase and a sentence final particle .
All target sentences therefore consisted of nine syllables .
The span of the focus constituent within the target NP was controlled using short contexts consisting of a wh - question .
These contexts were prerecorded by a native speaker of TwM and presented auditorily .
The wh - element of these questions targeted either ( i ) the entire NP ( NP - FOCUS ) , ( ii ) the numeral only ( NUM - FOCUS ) , or ( iii ) the noun only ( N - FOCUS ) .
Example glosses are given in Table 2 .
None of the target sentences included other potentially focus sensitive lexical items ( e.g. , adverbs such as no , certainly , only ) .
There were therefore 72 target items in total ( 24 sentences × 3 focus conditions ) .
Procedure and Analysis .
The experiment was conducted in a soundattenuated room on the campus of Hong Kong Polytechnic University .
Each participant first signed an informed consent form and filled out a language background questionnaire .
During the experiment , participants were seated in front of a computer screen and wore headphones .
Stimuli were presented one at a time ( self - paced ) on the screen .
The order was pseudo - randomized using three separate lists , such that no target item occurred immediately adjacent to itself .
For each item , participants were asked to first listen to the context question , and then read the target sentence aloud as casually and naturally as possible ; no instructions were given regarding focus or emphasis .
Participants produced each sentence twice ; additional repetitions were allowed in cases of mispronunciation or hesitation .
Productions were recorded in .wav format at a sampling rate of 44.1 kHz with 16 - bit encoding .
Three practice trials were completed before the experiment .
A 5minute break was given after each set of 18 trials .
The experiment lasted around 30 minutes .
Trials were segmented using Praat ( Boersma & Weenink , 2018 ) .
Syllable boundaries were manually labeled through visual and auditory inspection of the waveform and spectrogram .
The vocal pulses were manually checked and corrected in cases of creaky vocalization or pitch halving / doubling .
For each syllable , duration , mean intensity ( rms amplitude ) , and mean F0 were measured automatically in Praat using a custom script developed by the research team .
The F0 normalization was realized by dividing each syllable into 10 equal temporal intervals , and F0 was converted from Hz to semitones by relativizing values to 1 Hz via the formula : 12 ln ( x / 1 ) / ln 2 .
Linear mixed effects models were fit to the data for each target syllable using the lme4 package ( Bates et al . , 2015 ) in R ( R Core Team , 2014 , Version 3.1.0 ) .
Fixed factors included only FOCUS condition .
Random intercepts included Speaker and Item .
The inclusion of random slopes led to non - convergence for all models we tested .
Pairwise post - hoc comparisons for the three Focus conditions were conducted using the glht function in the multcomp package ( Hothorn et al . , 2017 ) .
Results .
Duration .
Boxplots for duration by syllable and FOCUS condition are shown in Figure 1 for T1 and T3 .
These plots suggest that the duration of a syllable is greatest when it is the sole narrow focus ( i.e. , NU , numeral ; NO , noun ) , least when it is outside of the focus , and intermediate when the entire NP is focused .
Descriptively , this effect appears stronger for the noun than for the numeral .
Focus appears to have little effect on the duration of the classifier , when it is after ( NU ) and before ( NO ) narrow foci , and even when it is internal to the focus constituent ( NP - FOCUS ) .
Post - hoc comparisons confirm some of these observations , in that for T1 , the numeral was significantly longer in NUM - FOCUS than in NOUN - FOCUS ( p < 0.001 ) .
The noun was significantly longer in NOUN - FOCUS than in NP - FOCUS ( p < 0.01 ) or NUM - FOCUS ( p < 0.01 ) , and longer in NP - Focus than in NUM - FOCUS ( p < 0.01 ) .
For T3 , the numeral was longer in NUM - FOCUS than in NOUN - FOCUS ( p < 0.01 ) , and the noun was longer in Noun - Focus than in either NP - Focus ( p < 0.001 ) or NUM - FOCUS ( p < 0.001 ) .
Focus condition had no significant effect on classifier duration for either T1 or T3 .
Mean F0 .
Boxplots for mean F0 were not particularly informative for this data set , so time - normalized plots of F0 ( semitone ) averaged across trials are given by FOCUS conditions in Figure 2 for T1 and T3 .
These plots suggest that while the basic tonal contours for T1 and T3 were maintained across FOCUS conditions , when the noun or numeral was within the focus constituent , either because it was the sole focus or within the focused NP , it had a higher overall F0 .
By contrast , F0 on the classifier appears higher for both NP - FOCUS and NUM - FOCUS ( NU ) than for NOUN - FOCUS ( NO ) .
In other words , it appears to pattern with the F0 level of the numeral .
The plot for T3 also suggests that third tone sandhi applied between the numeral and classifier , in that there is a dramatic lowering toward the end of noun , but not between the numeral and classifier .
Pairwise post - hoc comparisons of mean F0 confirmed some of these observations .
For T1 , the numeral had a marginally higher mean F0 in NUM - FOCUS than in NOUN - FOCUS ( p = 0.058 ) , while the noun had a marginally higher mean F0 in NOUN - FOCUS than in NUM - FOCUS ( p = 0.065 ) .
Crucially , the classifier had a significantly higher mean F0 in NUM - FOCUS than in NOUN - FOCUS ( p < 0.05 ) .
No mean F0 comparisons for T3 approached significance .
Intensity .
Boxplots for intensity by syllable and FOCUS condition are shown in Figure 3 for T1 and T3 .
These plots suggest that if intensity is influenced by focus , it is not a particularly strong or systematic effect .
The only noteworthy descriptive observation is that for T3 , intensity is sharply lower on the noun compared to the two preceding PACLIC 32 syllables , while this pattern is absent or at weak for T1 .
Figure 3 : Boxplots and means ( dark red ) for intensity by syllable and FOCUS condition for T1 ( top ) and T3 ( bottom ) .
Pairwise post - hoc comparisons nevertheless revealed some noteworthy patterns .
For T1 , the numeral had a significantly greater intensity for NUM - FOCUS ( NU ) and NP - FOCUS than for NOUN - FOCUS ( NO ) ( respectively , p < 0.001 , p < 0.05 ) .
Parallel to the results for mean F0 , the intensity of the classifier was greater for NUM - FOCUS and NP - FOCUS than for NOUN - FOCUS ( respectively , p < 0.01 , p < 0.01 ) , suggesting for this acoustic dimension as well , the classifier patterns with the numeral .
For T3 , the results were less informative ; the intensity of the noun was marginally greater in NOUN - FOCUS than in NUM - FOCUS ( p = 0.067 ) .
Discussion .
Our study sought to explore whether focus realization in Taiwan Mandarin extends beyond general acoustic highlighting of the focus constituent .
Our results show support for this idea in several respects .
First , we found that both the numeral and noun were longer when inside the focus constituent as compared to outside of it , but the duration of the classifier was not affected by focus condition .
This could be explained if focusrelated lengthening concerns primarily the edges of a constituent .
Consider that in many languages , edge marking is one of the primary prosodic exponents of focus , and this can occur at either or both the left or right edges ( French : Di Cristo , 1998 , German & D'Imperio , 2016;Japanese : Pierrehumbert & Beckman , 1988 , Gussenhoven , 2004;Basque : Gussenhoven , 2004 ) .
If duration is an edge - based means of marking focus in TwM , this would explain the lack of lengthening by the classifier in NP - Focus , since it is further from an edge than the other two elements .
We also found that durational effects of focus were stronger for the noun than for the numeral .
Many languages mark the left and right edges of focus constituents differently .
In French , for example , the right edge is marked with one category of pitch accent involving primarily rhyme lengthening , while the left edge is marked with a different phonological category associated with onset lengthening ( Astesano , 2001 ) .
More detailed analysis and further studies are needed to assess whether the different effects of focus on duration for different positions in TwM are due to a leftright asymmetry in general lengthening , or whether it is due to more fine - grained differences in how lengthening applies to different phonological elements .
It is also worth noting that syntactically , the noun is special , since it lies at a strong juncture between the syntactic subject and the VP in our study .
Across a wide variety of languages , this location holds a privileged status with respect to prosodic phrasing , in that higher level prosodic boundaries are generally required there than for most other types of syntactic juncture .
An alternative explanation could therefore be related to how focus marking interacts with pre - existing prosodic boundaries , or else the tendency for boundaries to be strengthened at specific locations as a result of focus Finally , we found that the classifier did not pattern with respect to focus in the same way across the three acoustic measures .
Specifically , its duration was not affected by focus condition , but it showed a higher mean F0 and greater intensity in the Num - Focus and NP - Focus conditions as compared to Noun - Focus .
If this asymmetry across measures involved only NP - Focus , this would already be surprising , since it would suggest that mean F0 and intensity , not duration , correspond to a general strategy of prosodic highlighting of the focus constituent .
What is most surprising , however , is that the classifier actually patterns with the numeral in this respect , since mean F0 and intensity were similar ( and higher ) for Num - Focus and NP - Focus .
This suggests that a level of prosodic constituency may be influencing how precisely focus marking can target the actual focus constituent .
Previous studies have argued for the prosodic word as a phonologically relevant unit in at least some varieties of Mandarin , and that this unit is minimally disyllabic .
On the assumption that the numeral and the classifier form a prosodic word independently of focus effects , our results suggest that focus marking targets entire prosodic words , even if this leads to non - optimal enhancement of syllables outside of the focus constituent , or " overfocusing " .
Our current findings are closely in line with those from a similar study on Beijing Mandarin ( Hsu , 2018 ) , in showing a similar trend in the prosodic marking of focus .
They also suggest that complex internal organization at different structural levels ( e.g. , prosodic phrasing ) interacts with the system of focus prosody .
Our results showed , in particular , a discrepancy between prosodic constituents and focus constituents , in that ( i ) the prosodic realization of the monosyllabic classifier patterned with the focus status of the monosyllabic numeral , and ( ii ) the application of third tone sandhi between the numeral and classifier complied with prosodic constituency but not focus constituency .
In another study on Beijing Mandarin ( Hsu & Xu , 2017 ) , the same syntactic structure was used , but unlike Hsu ( 2018 ) or the present study , the numeral consisted of two syllables instead of one .
The results showed that when the disyllabic numeral itself was the sole narrow focus , it performed as a prosodic constituent independent of its following classifier , and third tone sandhi did not apply between the numeral and classifier .
Considering the interaction of prosodic phrasing and focus prosody , we expect future studies to reveal a similar pattern for TwM.
Acknowledgments .
This research was made possible through support by the A*MIDEX project ( n ° ANR-11 - IDEX-0001 - 02 ) funded by the Investissements d'Avenir French Government program , managed by the French National Research Agency ( ANR ) , as well as by the general research fund ( 4 - ZZJQ ) supported by the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies at Hong Kong Polytechnic University .
We would like to thank the three PACLIC-32 anonymous reviewers for their insightful comments .
We would also like to thank Anqi Xu , and Sui Li for their technical support .
Mistakes remaining are exclusively our own .
