" Devils Are in the Details " : Annotating Specificity of Clinical Advice from Medical Literature .
Prior studies have raised concerns over specificity issues in clinical advice .
Lacking specificity -explicitly discussed detailed information -may affect the quality and implementation of clinical advice in medical practice .
In this study , we developed and validated a finegrained annotation schema to describe different aspects of specificity in clinical advice extracted from medical research literature .
We also presented our initial annotation effort and discussed future directions towards an NLPbased specificity analysis tool for summarizing and verifying the details in clinical advice .
Introduction .
In medical literature , authors often explain clinical implications after presenting their research findings .
For example , " Results of this post - hoc analysis suggest that LEV may be a suitable option for initial monotherapy for patients aged ≥ 60 years with newly diagnosed epilepsy " ( Pohlmann - Eden et al . , 2016 ) .
Clinical advice like this can influence health researchers and practitioners on specific medical practices .
Hence , it is an important information service to retrieve and analyze clinical advice from medical literature .
Prior studies have identified some quality issues that may affect the implementation of clinical advice .
One concern is the lack of specificity .
Two studies have compared the implementation outcomes of professionally - designed clinical guidelines with different levels of specificity , and found that concrete and precise descriptions resulted in higher adoption rate ( Michie and Johnston , 2004;Michie and Lester , 2005 ) .
Clinical advice in medical literature also varies in specificity levels .
For example , advice sentences appeared in abstracts tend to be less specific compared to those in discussions , where more space is available for explaining the details ( Li and Yu , 2022 ) .
To better retrieve and summarize clinical advice from medical literature , this study aims to develop a taxonomy of specifics in clinical advice , such that they may be retrieved and compared in finer granularity .
We developed and validated an annotation schema that can partition a clinical advice sentence to multiple elements : 1 ) agents ; 2 ) substantial qualifications or elaborations ; 3 ) chain of reasoning ; 4 ) confidence .
This annotation schema was developed based on medical research on clinical guidelines and NLP research on modeling specificity as a language construct .
We also discussed the future directions for computationally modeling specificity of clinical advice in medical literature .
Such specificity analysis tool can be used for downstream applications such as detecting quality issues of clinical advice .
For example , one study raised severe concern that many recommendations for clinical practice were not supported by findings in the conclusions ( Yavchitz et al . , 2016 ) .
The problem is more severe in abstracts than in discussions .
Since abstracts are much more accessible than full - text articles , the " spins " in abstracts are also more harmful than those in discussions ( Boutron et al . , 2014 ) .
An NLP - based specificity analysis tool can help compare recommendation details against available evidence , or compare similar recommendations in fine - granularity .
Related Work .
Specificity is an important concept in both clinical practice and claim analyses .
In medical domain , specificity is defined narrowly , focusing on the detailed information regarding clinical practice and health - related behavior changes .
For example , Shekelle et al .
( 2000 ) defined a specific guideline as " creates clinical appropriate criteria for a large number of clinically detailed patient presentations ; it does not force consensus " ( p.1431 ) .
Similarly , Michie and Lester ( 2005 ) Compared to the narrow definition in clinical domain , specificity is defined more broadly in the NLP field , referring to how much detailed information is included in a statement .
Depending on the text domains , researchers have proposed different taxonomies to define specificity .
For example , in education domain , the specificity classroom discussions was defined based on four aspects : " involves one character or scene " , " gives substantial qualifications or elaboration " , " uses content - specific vocabulary " , and " provides a chain of reasoning " ( Lugini and Litman , 2017 ) .
Similarly , arguments in student essays were assigned specificity scores based on occurrence of qualifiers , references to supporting components , hypotheses , and real - world examples ( Carlile et al . , 2018 ) .
Specificity in other domains was defined quite differently .
For example , the specificity of pledges of election manifestos were labelled based on expressions of moral values , intangible goals and outcomes , commitment to the maintenance of functioning policy , means and details to achieve the objectives ( Subramanian et al . , 2019 ) .
The specificity in social media posts was defined based on their references to specific person , object or event ( Gao et al . , 2019 ) .
Although the exact aspects applied to describe specificity differ by domains , they usually cover the anwers to questions about who , what , when , where , why , and how .
Since the clinical domain and the education domain are most relevant to our task , we defined our annotation schema by combining the definitions from these two domains .
3 Data and Annotation Schema .
Dataset .
In this study , we used an open - access dataset on health advice , which contains a sample of 10,848 sentences extracted from abstracts and discussion sections in medical research papers , in which 2,748 sentences were annotated as health advice ( Li et al . , 2021 ) .
The research papers include different study designs , including randomized controlled trials and four types of observational studies , including crosssectional , case - control , retrospective , and prospective studies .
We sampled sentences from all study designs to ensure the annotation schema is generalizable .
We first sampled 100 advice sentences to develop the annotation schema and finalize the definition of each concept .
We then sampled another 100 advice sentences to evaluate the inter - coder agreement on the finalized annotation schema .
Annotating Clinical and Non - clinical Advice .
In the health advice dataset ( Li et al . , 2021 ) , the annotated health advice may recommend clinical intervention and practice ( " clinical advice " ) or simply raise awareness and call for actions for certain health behavior or policy change ( " non - clinical advice " ) .
The latter type tends to use vague verbs such as " address " and " encourage " instead of concrete description of interventions .
In this study , we focus on clinical advice .
Hence , the first step in the annotation is to distinguish clinical vs.
non - clinical advice .
Clinical advice will be further annotated with specificity aspects .
Occasionally , we encountered a sentence with serious semantic ambiguity , and labelled it as incomprehensive .
Drawing on prior specificity annotations on clinical guidelines , we adopted two key aspects that also appear in clinical advice in medical literature : " agents " and " substantial qualifications or elaborations " .
In addition , we found two aspects in clinical advice from medical literature but are absent in clinical guidelines : " chain of reasoning " and " confidence " .
Diffrent from clinical guidelines that focus on what to do only , clinical advice from research papers sometimes includes explanations on the reason of why a recommendation was made .
Therefore , we added " chain of reasoning " .
This concept is borrowed from specificity annotation in the education domain ( Lugini and Litman , 2017 ) .
In addition , authors often expressed their confidence in clinical advice using words like " possible " , " may","can " , and " is " , based on the evidence level .
This concept is relevant to the " strong / weak advice " concept in the original health advice data set , or prior studies that distinguished " implicit / explicit advice " ( Sumner et al . , 2014 ) .
These prior studies aimed for categorical definition of the advice strength , and they cover both clinical and nonclinical advice .
In this study , we use the concept Health advice that aims to raise awareness or calls for actions for health - related behavioral changes .
The outcome of the action is not directly measurable .
Use verbs such as " address " , " encourage " , and " ensure " .
1 .
Special attention is required in such patients while doing treatment planning .
2 .
We conclude that it is important to encourage physical activity in this population .
Clinical Advice .
Health advice that provides clear actionable suggestions for medical practice and policy changes .
The advice contains precise and concrete description for the treatment or intervention that needs to be taken .
3 .
Therefore , intraoperative antifibrinolysis may not be indicated in routine cardiac surgery when other blood - saving techniques are adopted .
Annotation : agent ( N / A ) , intervention ( " intraoperative antifibrinolysis " ) , target ( N / A ) , goal ( " routine cardiac surgery when other blood - saving techniques are adopted " ) , chain of reasoning ( N / A ) , confidence ( " may not be indicated in " ) 4 .
Therefore , due to the cost , possible side effects , and the limited saving of homologous blood , intraoperative antifibrinolytic therapy may not be indicated in routine cardiac surgery .
Annotation : agent ( N / A ) , intervention ( " intraoperative antifibrinolytic therapy " ) , target ( N / A ) , goal ( " routine cardiac surgery " ) , chain of reasoning ( " therefore , due to the cost , possible side effects , and the limited saving of homologous blood " ) , confidence ( " may not be indicated in " ) " confidence " to emphasize that we aim to identify the phrases that describe confidence level in clinical advice only .
Overall , we defined specificity from the following four dimensions : " agents " , " substantial qualifications or elaborations " , " chain of reasoning " , and " confidence " .
Table 1 shows the definition and sentence examples of the annotation schema .
Agents : the party to carry out the recommended clinical practice , such as health practitioners or organizations .
Substantial qualifications or elaborations : concrete and precise details in health advice that depicts what , who , when , where , and how information to assist implementation of actionable clinical practice .
We further categorized it by the following sub - dimensions : Intervention : the details of treatment , such as therapy procedures , doses and usage Target : the party to receive the recommended intervention , usually patients , sometimes including demographical details or body parts to be treated .
Goal : illness / symptom that the intervention aims to treat , or another treatment that it aims to support .
Chain of reasoning : reasons for the clinical advice , normally indicated by linguistic cues such as " although " , " as long as " and " since " , when health researchers admitting a fact or showing contrasts in recommendations .
Confidence : the level of confidence researchers have when giving the advice .
Inter - coder Agreement .
To test the validity of the proposed schema , a sample of 100 advice sentences were randomly selected for inter - coder agreement evaluation .
We applied disproportionate stratified sampling to get 20 advice sentences from each of the 5 study designs .
Two annotators with the education backgrounds of linguistics and information science each labelled the 100 sentences for clinical advice and specificity .
The overall Cohen 's Kappa agreement ( Cohen , 1960 ) on annotating clinical and non - clinical advice was 0.88 , indicating a near - perfect intercoder agreement ( McHugh , 2012 ) .
The agreement on each of the specificity dimensions were : agent ( 0.98 ) , intervention ( 0.93 ) , target ( 0.91 ) , goal ( 0.87 ) , chain of reasoning ( 0.91 ) , and confidence ( 0.93 ) .
Disagreed cases were later resolved by the two annotators through discussion .
Specifics in Clinical Advice .
We annotated 200 health advice sentences in total for schema development and validation .
Excluding two incomprehensible sentences , 100 were " clinical advice " , and 98 were " non - clinical " advice .
Table 2 shows their distributions across different study designs .
The almost equal distribution of clinical and non - clinical advice suggests that researchers tend to give both advice for clinical practice / interventions and advice that calls for general health - related behavior changes .
However , when zooming into the different study deigns , we noted that RCTs have a higher percentage of clinical advice ( 67.5 % ) than the observational studies followed by retrospective ( 55.0 % ) , prospective ( 47.5 % ) , case - control ( 42.5 % ) , and cross - sectional studies ( 37.5 % ) , indicating that researchers are more likely to give clinical advice in studies with higher evidence levels .
The quality of clinical advice given in observational studies was more often questioned by the research community ( Cofield et al . , 2010 ) .
Among the 100 clinical advice sentences , " intervention " , " confidence " and " goal " are most often mentioned .
Different from professionally - designed clinical guidelines , " agent " in medical literature is almost always omitted , and " target " is omitted over 40 % of times .
Reasoning is also not often provided ( 25 % ) .
See Table 3 for the aspect distribution .
With the fine - grained specificity annotation , we can then compare details of recommendations against evidence strength or compare different versions of similar recommendations .
For example , in Table 1 , examples 3 and 4 appear in the same research paper but different sections .
The annotations show that the first sentence provides a more specific goal , while the second sentence provides reasoning .
Towards Computational Modeling of Specificity .
The explosive growth of research output and restricted human capacities in information processing and decision making calls for an NLP - based specificity analysis tool to synthesize and aggregate the scientific evidence and clinical recommendations in research publications .
The developed annotation schema may then be used to develop automatic prediction models for clinical advice specifics classification and specifics extraction .
Based on the occurrence for each specificity dimension , we could frame the task as a sentence - level classification task and to computationally model the specificity level in each advice sentences .
Utilizing the annotated details under each specificity aspect , the task could also be framed as an information extraction one .
Information extraction tools could be developed to extract the details of each recommendation .
For example , simple rule - based approaches using regular expressions ( Savova et al . , 2010a ) may identify the aspects of agents and targets .
Existing NLP tools for medical concepts ( e.g. Savova et al . , 2010b;Zhou et al . , 2019;Zhang et al . , 2021 ) and clinical relation extractions based on pre - trained language models such as BERT ( Roy and Pan , 2021 ) may further identify other specificity aspects in the develop schema .
After extracting the specifics explicitly mentioned in each recommendation , we could compare different versions of semantically similar recommendations across the specifics to detect the inconsistent or exaggerated clinical advice in research literature .
Conclusion .
In this work we presented a fine - grained annotation schema for describing specificity in clinical advice extracted from medical research literature .
An inter - coder agreement check shows the proposed annotation schema reached almost perfect agreement in all dimensions .
The annotation schema could be used to develop gold - standard dataset that can be used to develop NLP models for identifying fine - grained specificity aspects in clinical advice , and to support downstream applications such as summarizing clinical advice or fact checking .
Acknowledgement .
This research is supported by the US National Science Foundation under grant 1952353 and the Syracuse University CUSE Grant .
