• Antal van den Bosch , Claire Cardie , Pascale Fung , Ray Mooney , and Joakim Nivre , who carefully reviewed papers under consideration for outstanding and best paper recognition .
Preface : General Chair .
In my welcome to participants in this year 's conference handbook , I especially welcomed those for which it was their first ACL .
I expressed the hope that the conference fulfilled their expectations and remained in their memory as a great start .
Trying to imagine the first experience of a present - day ACL , the magnitude of the whole event may be a bit overwhelming -our field is on an expanding trajectory , and even a selection of the best work fills a great number of parallel sessions over a number of days ; plus , there are the workshops and tutorials to quench many topical thirsts .
This ACL again promises to be a next peak in a progressive development .
ACL Conferences are the product of many people working together , kindly offering their services to the community at large .
ACL-2016 is no exception to this .
I would like to thank each and every person who has volunteered their time to make the event possible .
I am deeply impressed with the sense of community that organizing an ACL brings about .
Priscilla Rasmussen , the ACL Business Manager , and the 2015 ACL Executive Committee ( Chris Manning , Pushpak Bhattacharyya , Joakim Nivre , Graeme Hirst , Dragomir Radev , Gertjan van Nood , Min - Yen Kan , Herman Ney , and Yejin Choi ) have been instrumental in setting ACL-2016 in motion and in guiding the ACL-2016 team along the path from concept to execution .
Without the collective memory and hands - on guidance of the committee , an ACL conference will never happen .
The ACL-2016 team was formidable in building all the components of the conference and connecting them together in an impressive programme : Katrin Erk and Noah Smith ( Programme Committee Chairs ) ; Valia Kordoni , Markus Egg ( Local Arrangements Chairs ) who brought together a fantastic local organization team ; Sabine Schulte i m Walde and Jun Zhao ( Workshop Chairs ) , Alexandra Birch and Willem Zuidema ( Tutorial Chairs ) ; Hai Zhao , Yusuke Miyao , and Yannick Versley ( Publication Chairs ) ; Tao Lei , He He , and Will Roberts ( Student Research Workshop Chairs ) , Yang Liu , Chris Biemann , and Gosse Bouma ( Faculty Advisors for the Student Research Workshop ) , Marianna Apidianaki and Sameer Pradhan ( Demonstration Chairs ) , Barbara Plank ( Publicity Chair ) , Florian Kunneman and Matt Post ( Conference Handbook Team ) , and Yulia Grishina ( Student Volunteer Coordinator ) .
The Program Chairs selected outstanding invited speakers : Mark Steedman ( University of Edinburgh ) and Amber Boydstun ( University of California , Davis ) .
I am deeply grateful to our sponsors for their generous contributions , allowing the conference not to become prohibitively expensive : Google , Baidu , Amazon ( Platinum Sponsors ) ; Bloomberg , Facebook , eBay , Elsevier , Microsoft Research , and Maluuba ( Gold Sponsors ) ; Huawei Technologies , Zalando SE ( Silver Sponsors ) ; Nuance , Grammarly , Voicebox , Yandex , and Textkernel ( Bronze Sponsors ) .
Welcome to the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ! This year , ACL received 825 long paper submissions ( a new record ) and 463 short paper submissions .
1 Of the long papers , 231 were accepted for presentation at ACL-116 as oral presentations and 115 as poster presentations .
97 short papers were accepted-49 as oral and 48 as poster presentations .
In addition , ACL also features 25 presentations of papers accepted in the Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( TACL ) .
With 353 paper presentations at the main conference , this is the largest ACL program to date .
In keeping with the tremendous growth of our field , we introduced some changes to the conference .
Oral presentations were shortened to fifteen ( twelve ) minutes for long ( short ) papers , plus time for questions .
While this places a greater demand on speakers to be concise , we believe it is worth the effort , allowing far more work to be presented orally .
We also took advantage of the many halls available at Humboldt University and expanded the number of parallel talks during some conference sessions .
We introduced a category of outstanding papers to help recognize the highest quality work in the community this year .
The 11 outstanding papers ( 9 long , 2 short , 0.85 % of submissions ) represent a broad spectrum of exciting contributions ; they are recognized by especially prominent placement in the program .
From these , a best paper and an IBM - sponsored best student paper have been selected ; those will be announced in the awards session on Wednesday afternoon .
Following other recent ACL conferences , submissions were reviewed under different categories and using different review forms for empirical / data - driven , theoretical , applications / tools , resources / evaluation , and survey papers .
We introduced special fields in the paper submission form for authors to explicitly note the release of open - source implementations to enable reproducibility , and to note freely available datasets .
We also allowed authors to submit appendices of arbitrary length for details that would enable replication ; reviewers were not expected to read this material .
Another innovation we explored during the review period was the scheduling of short paper review before long paper review .
While this was planned to make the entire review period more compact ( fitting between the constraints of NAACL 2016 and EMNLP 2016 at either end ) , we found that reviewing short papers first eliminated many of the surprises for the long paper review process .
We sought to follow recently - evolved best practices in planning the poster sessions , so that the many highquality works presented in that format will be visible and authors and attendees benefit from the interactions during the two poster sessions .
ACL 2016 will have two distinguished invited speakers : Amber Boydstun ( Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of California , Davis ) and Mark Steedman ( Professor of Cognitive Science at the University of Edinburgh ) .
We are grateful that they accepted our invitations and look forward to their presentations .
There are many individuals we wish to thank for their contributions to ACL 2016 , some multiple times : • The 38 area chairs who recruited reviewers , led the discussion about each paper , carefully assessed each submission , and authored meta - reviews to guide final decisions : Miguel Ballesteros , David Bamman , Steven Bethard , Jonathan Berant , Gemma Boleda , Ming - Wei Chang , Wanxiang Che , Chris Dyer , Ed Grefenstette , Hannaneh Hajishirzi , Minlie Huang , Mans Hulden , Heng Ji , Jing Jiang , Zornitsa Kozareva , Marco Kuhlmann , Yang Liu , Annie Louis , Wei Lu , Marie - Catherine de Marneffe , Gerard de Melo , David Mimno , Meg Mitchell , Daichi Mochihashi , Graham Neubig , Naoaki Okazaki , Simone Ponzetto , Matthew Purver , David Reitter , Nathan Schneider , Hinrich Schuetze , Thamar Solorio , Lucia Specia , Partha Talukdar , Ivan Titov , Lu Wang , Nianwen Xue , and Grace Yang .
• Our full program committee of 884 hard - working individuals who reviewed the conference 's 1,288 submissions ( including secondary reviewers ) .
• The ACL coordinating committee members , especially Yejin Choi , Graeme Hirst , Chris Manning , and Shiqi Zhao , who answered many questions as they arose during the year .
• TACL editors - in - chief Mark Johnson , Lillian Lee , and Kristina Toutanova , for coordinating with us on TACL presentations at ACL .
• Ani Nenkova and Owen Rambow , program co - chairs of NAACL 2016 , and Michael Strube , program co - chair of ACL 2015 , who were generous with advice .
• Yusuke Miyao , Yannick Versley , and Hai Zhao , our well - organized publication chairs , and the responsive team at Softconf led by Rich Gerber .
• Valia Kordoni and the local organization team , especially webmaster Kostadin Cholakov .
• Antal van den Bosch , our general chair , who kept us coordinated with the rest of the ACL 2016 team and offered guidance whenever we needed it .
Table of Contents .
Fraser , Dayne Freitag , Annemarie Friedrich , Akinori Fujino , Yarin Gal , Michel Galley , Carlos Gallo , Björn Gambäck , Michael Gamon , Kuzman Ganchev , Kavita Ganesan , Juri Ganitkevitch , Jianfeng Gao , Wei Gao , Miguel A.
García - Cumbreras , Claire Gardent , Matt Gardner , Dan Garrette , Milica Gasic , Kallirroi Georgila , Daniel Gildea , Kevin Gimpel , Maite Giménez , Jonathan Ginzburg , Dimitra Gkatzia , Goran Glavaš , Amir Globerson , Yoav Goldberg , Dan Goldwasser , Sharon Goldwater , Carlos Gómez - Rodríguez , Edgar González Pellicer , Matthew R.
Gormley , Cyril Goutte , Joao Graca , Yvette Graham , Roger Granada , Edouard Grave , Nancy Green , Spence Green , Ed Grefenstette , Denis Griffis , Tom Griffiths , Liane Guillou , Curry Guinn , James Gung , Jiang Guo , Weiwei Guo , Yuhong Guo , Abhijeet Gupta , Iryna Gurevych , Yoan Gutierrez , Kelvin Guu , Nizar Habash , Gholamreza Haffari , Hannaneh Hajishirzi , Dilek Hakkani - Tur , John Hale , David Hall , Keith Hall , William L.
Hamilton , Michael Hammond , Bo Han , Greg Hanneman , Christian Hardmeier , Sasa Hasan , Helen Hastie , Claudia Hauff , Katsuhiko Hayashi , Daqing He , Luheng He , Xiaodong He , Yifan He , Kenneth Heafield , Carmen Heger , Michael Heilman , James Henderson , Matthew Henderson , Aurélie Herbelot , Karl Moritz Hermann , Daniel Hershcovich , Jack Hessel , Felix Hill , Keikichi Hirose , Graeme Hirst , Julian Hitschler , Anna Hjalmarsson , Kai Hong , Liangjie Hong , Andrea Horbach , Julian Hough , Dirk Hovy , Bo - June ( Paul ) Hsu , Liang Huang , Minlie Huang , Ruihong Huang , Mans Hulden , Tim Hunter , Jena D.
Hwang , Ignacio Iacobacci , Ryu Iida , Diana Inkpen , Naoya Inoue , Hitoshi Isahara , Hideki Isozaki , Mohit Iyyer , Cassandra L.
Jacobs , Guillaume Jacquet , Evan Jaffe , Jagadeesh Jagarlamudi , Zunaira Jamil , Peter Jansen , Laura Jehl , Yacine Jernite , Heng Ji , Yangfeng Ji , Sittichai Jiampojamarn , Jing Jiang , Wenbin Jiang , Xin Jiang , Salud María Jiménez Zafra , Anders Johannsen , Richard Johansson , Michael Johnston , Kristiina Jokinen , Arne Jonsson , Aditya Joshi , Shafiq Joty , Dan Jurafsky , Filip Jurcicek , David Jurgens , Mijail Kabadjov , Nobuhiro Kaji , Jaap Kamps , Min - Yen Kan , Hiroshi Kanayama , Mladen Karan , Tatsuya Kawahara , Frank Keller , Casey Kennington , Chloé Kiddon , Douwe Kiela , Jae Won Kim , Joon Kim , Jooyeon Kim , Suin Kim , Sunghwan Kim , Yoon Kim , Young - Bum Kim , Irwin King , Brian Kingsbury , Svetlana Kiritchenko , Julia Kiseleva , Alexandre Klementiev , Sigrid Klerke , Christoph Kling , Julien Kloetzer , Alistair Knott , Tomáš Kočiský , Philipp Koehn , Oskar Kohonen , Prasanth Kolachina , Alexander Koller , Mamoru Komachi , Kazunori Komatani , Rik Koncel - Kedziorski , Lingpeng Kong , Ioannis Konstas , Hahn Koo , Stefan Kopp , Moshe Koppel , Valia Kordoni , Anna Korhonen , Bhushan Kotnis , Zornitsa Kozareva , Julia Kreutzer , Jayant Krishnamurthy , Mark Kroell , Kriste Krstovski , Canasai Kruengkrai , Germán Kruszewski , Lun - Wei Ku , Sicong Kuang , Marco Kuhlmann , Jonas Kuhn , Wu Kui , Shankar Kumar , Nate Kushman , Ilia Kuznetsov , Polina Kuznetsova , Tom Kwiatkowski , Sandra Kübler , Man Lan , Guy Lapalme , Mirella Lapata , Shalom Lappin , Birger Larsen , Alex Lascarides , Alon Lavie , Angeliki Lazaridou , Phong Le , Joseph Le Roux , Kenton Lee , Moontae Lee , Sungjin Lee , Yoong Keok Lee , Tao Lei , Oliver Lemon , Alessandro Lenci , Lori Levin , Gina - Anne Levow , Omer Levy , Mike Lewis , Chen Li , Fangtao Li , Hang Li , Jing Li , Jiwei Li , Junhui Li , Shoushan Li , Sujian Li , Wenjie Li , Xiaolong Li , Zhenghua Li , Kexin Liao , Xiangwen Liao , Chin - Yew Lin , Hui Lin , Victoria Lin , Wang Ling , Xiao Ling , Christina Lioma , Pierre Lison , Diane Litman , Marina Litvak , Biao Liu , Fei Chun Wei Seah , Djamé Seddah , Wolfgang Seeker , Yohei Seki , Rico Sennrich , Minjoon Seo , Hendra Setiawan , Izhak Shafran , Apurva Shah , Kashif Shah , Shiqi Shen , Chaitanya Shivade , Milad Shokouhi , Szymon Sidor , Avirup Sil , Carina Silberer , Mario J.
Silva , Fabrizio Silvestri , Khalil Sima'an , Patrick Simianer , Serra Sinem Tekiroglu , Sameer Singh , Gabriel Skantze , Kevin Small , Noah Smith , Jan Šnajder , Jasper Snoek , Richard Socher , Anders Søgaard , Artem Sokolov , Thamar Solorio , Yan Song , Radu Soricut , Aitor Soroa , Lucia Specia , Caroline Sporleder , Vivek Srikumar , Edward Stabler , Gabriel Stanovsky , Manfred Stede , Mark Steedman , Amanda Stent , Brandon Stewart , Matthew Stone , Svetlana Stoyanchev , Veselin Stoyanov , Carlo Strapparava , Kristina Striegnitz , Markus Strohmaier , Patrick Sturt , Rajen Subba , Katsuhito Sudoh , Weiwei Sun , Xu Sun , Mihai Surdeanu , Jun Suzuki , John Sylak - Glassman , Gabriel Synnaeve , Stan Szpakowicz , Idan Szpektor , Hiroya Takamura , Partha Talukdar , Akihiro Tamura , Duyu Tang , Jian Tang , Jiliang Tang , Mariona Taulé , Christoph Teichmann , Irina Temnikova , Joel Tetreault , Kapil Thadani , Ran Tian , Jörg Tiedemann , Ivan Titov , Takenobu Tokunaga , Katrin Tomanek , Kentaro Torisawa , David Vilar Torres , Kristina Toutanova , Isabel Trancoso , Harald Trost , Richard Tzong - Han Tsai , Reut Tsarfaty , Kostas Tsioutsiouliklis , Oren Tsur , Yoshimasa Tsuruoka , Yulia Tsvetkov , Gokhan Tur , Marco Turchi , Oscar .
