Open - Domain Targeted Sentiment Analysis via Span - Based Extraction and Classification .
Open - domain targeted sentiment analysis aims to detect opinion targets along with their sentiment polarities from a sentence .
Prior work typically formulates this task as a sequence tagging problem .
However , such formulation suffers from problems such as huge search space and sentiment inconsistency .
To address these problems , we propose a span - based extract - then - classify framework , where multiple opinion targets are directly extracted from the sentence under the supervision of target span boundaries , and corresponding polarities are then classified using their span representations .
We further investigate three approaches under this framework , namely the pipeline , joint , and collapsed models .
Experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our approach consistently outperforms the sequence tagging baseline .
Moreover , we find that the pipeline model achieves the best performance compared with the other two models .
Introduction .
Open - domain targeted sentiment analysis is a fundamental task in opinion mining and sentiment analysis ( Pang et al . , 2008;Liu , 2012 ) .
Compared to traditional sentence - level sentiment analysis tasks ( Lin and He , 2009;Kim , 2014 ) , the task requires detecting target entities mentioned in the sentence along with their sentiment polarities , thus being more challenging .
Taking Figure 1 as an example , the goal is to first identify " Windows 7 " and " Vista " as opinion targets and then predict their corresponding sentiment classes .
Typically , the whole task can be decoupled into two subtasks .
Since opinion targets are not given , we need to first detect the targets from the input text .
This subtask , which is usually denoted as target extraction , can be solved by sequence tagging methods ( Jakob and Gurevych , 2010;Liu et al . , 2015;Wang et al . , 2016a;Poria et al . , 2016;Shu et al . , 2017;He et al . , 2017;Xu et al . , 2018 ) .
Next , polarity classification aims to predict the sentiment polarities over the extracted target entities ( Jiang et al . , 2011;Dong et al . , 2014;Tang et al . , 2016a;Wang et al . , 2016b;Chen et al . , 2017;Xue and Li , 2018;Li et al . , 2018;Fan et al . , 2018 ) .
Although lots of efforts have been made to design sophisticated classifiers for this subtask , they all assume that the targets are already given .
Rather than using separate models for each subtask , some works attempt to solve the task in a more integrated way , by jointly extracting targets and predicting their sentiments ( Mitchell et al . , 2013;Zhang et al . , 2015;Li et al . , 2019 ) .
The key insight is to label each word with a set of target tags ( e.g. , B , I , O ) as well as a set of polarity tags ( e.g. , + , - , 0 ) , or use a more collapsed set of tags ( e.g. , B+ , I- ) to directly indicate the boundary of targeted sentiment , as shown in Figure 2(a ) .
As a result , the entire task is formulated as a sequence tagging problem , and solved using either a pipeline model , a joint model , or a collapsed model under the same network architecture .
However , the above annotation scheme has several disadvantages in target extraction and polarity classification .
Lee et al .
( 2016 ) show that , when using BIO tags for extractive question answering tasks , the model must consider a huge search space due to the compositionality of labels ( the power set of all sentence words ) , thus being less effective .
As for polarity classification , the sequence tagging scheme turns out to be problematic for two reasons .
First , tagging polarity over each word ignores the semantics of the entire opinion target .
Second , since predicted polarities over target words may be different , the sentiment consistency of multi - word entity can not be guaranteed , as mentioned by Li et al .
( 2019 ) .
For example , there is a chance that the words " Windows " and " 7 " in Figure 2(a ) are predicted to have different polarities due to word - level tagging decisions .
To address the problems , we propose a spanbased labeling scheme for open - domain targeted sentiment analysis , as shown in Figure 2(b ) .
The key insight is to annotate each opinion target with its span boundary followed by its sentiment polarity .
Under such annotation , we introduce an extract - then - classify framework that first extracts multiple opinion targets using an heuristic multispan decoding algorithm , and then classifies their polarities with corresponding summarized span representations .
The advantage of this approach is that the extractive search space can be reduced linearly with the sentence length , which is far less than the tagging method .
Moreover , since the polarity is decided using the targeted span representation , the model is able to take all target words into account before making predictions , thus naturally avoiding sentiment inconsistency .
We take BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) as the default backbone network , and explore two research questions .
First , we make an elaborate comparison between tagging - based models and span - based models .
Second , following previous works ( Mitchell et al . , 2013;Zhang et al . , 2015 ) , we compare the pipeline , joint , and collapsed models under the span - based labeling scheme .
Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our models consistently outperform sequence tagging baselines .
In addition , the pipeline model firmly improves over both the joint and collapsed models .
Source code is released to facilitate future research in this field 1 .
1 https://github.com/huminghao16/SpanABSA .
Related Work .
Apart from sentence - level sentiment analysis ( Lin and He , 2009;Kim , 2014 ) , targeted sentiment analysis , which requires the detection of sentiments towards mentioned entities in the open domain , is also an important research topic .
As discussed in § 1 , this task is usually divided into two subtasks .
The first is target extraction for identifying entities from the input sentence .
Traditionally , Conditional Random Fields ( CRF ) ( Lafferty et al . , 2001 ) have been widely explored ( Jakob and Gurevych , 2010;Wang et al . , 2016a;Shu et al . , 2017 ) .
Recently , many works concentrate on leveraging deep neural networks to tackle this task , e.g. , using CNNs ( Poria et al . , 2016;Xu et al . , 2018 ) , RNNs ( Liu et al . , 2015;He et al . , 2017 ) , and so on .
The second is polarity classification , assuming that the target entities are given .
Recent works mainly focus on capturing the interaction between the target and the sentence , by utilizing various neural architectures such as LSTMs ( Hochreiter and Schmidhuber , 1997;Tang et al . , 2016a ) with attention mechanism ( Wang et al . , 2016b;Li et al . , 2018;Fan et al . , 2018 ) , CNNs ( Xue and Li , 2018;Huang and Carley , 2018 ) , and Memory Networks ( Tang et al . , 2016b;Chen et al . , 2017;Li and Lam , 2017 ) .
Rather than solving these two subtasks with separate models , a more practical approach is to directly predict the sentiment towards an entity along with discovering the entity itself .
Specifically , Mitchell et al .
( 2013 ) formulate the whole task as a sequence tagging problem and propose to use CRF with hand - crafted linguistic features .
Zhang et al .
( 2015 ) further leverage these linguistic features to enhance a neural CRF model .
Recently , Li et al .
( 2019 ) have proposed a unified model that contains two stacked LSTMs along with carefully - designed components for maintaining sentiment consistency and improving target ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) that contains L pre - trained Transformer blocks ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) .
The last block 's hidden states are used to ( a ) propose one or multiple candidate targets based on the probabilities of the start and end positions , ( b ) predict the sentiment polarity using the span representation of the given target .
word detection .
Our work differs from these approaches in that we formulate this task as a spanlevel extract - then - classify process instead .
The proposed span - based labeling scheme is inspired by recent advances in machine comprehension and question answering ( Seo et al . , 2017;Hu et al . , 2018 ) , where the task is to extract a continuous span of text from the document as the answer to the question ( Rajpurkar et al . , 2016 ) .
To solve this task , Lee et al .
( 2016 ) investigate several predicting strategies , such as BIO prediction , boundary prediction , and the results show that predicting the two endpoints of the answer is more beneficial than the tagging method .
Wang and Jiang ( 2017 ) explore two answer prediction methods , namely the sequence method and the boundary method , finding that the later performs better .
Our approach is related to this line of work .
However , unlike these works that extract one span as the final answer , our approach is designed to dynamically output one or multiple opinion targets .
Extract - then - Classify Framework .
Instead of formulating the open - domain targeted sentiment analysis task as a sequence tagging problem , we propose to use a span - based labeling scheme as follows : given an input sentence x = ( x 1 , ... , x n ) with length n , and a target list T = { t 1 , ... , t m } , where the number of targets is m and each target t i is annotated with its start position , its end position , and its sentiment polarity .
The goal is to find all targets from the sentence as well as predict their polarities .
The overall illustration of the proposed framework is shown in Figure 3 .
The basis of our frame - work is the BERT encoder ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ): we map word embeddings into contextualized token representations using pre - trained Transformer blocks ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) ( § 3.1 ) .
A multitarget extractor is first used to propose multiple candidate targets from the sentence ( § 3.2 ) .
Then , a polarity classifier is designed to predict the sentiment towards each extracted candidate using its summarized span representation ( § 3.3 ) .
We further investigate three different approaches under this framework , namely the pipeline , joint , and collapsed models in § 3.4 . BERT as Backbone Network .
We use Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers ( BERT ) ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) , a pre - trained bidirectional Transformer encoder that achieves state - of - the - art performances across a variety of NLP tasks , as our backbone network .
We first tokenize the sentence x using a 30,522 wordpiece vocabulary , and then generate the input sequence x by concatenating a [ CLS ] token , the tokenized sentence , and a [ SEP ] token .
Then for each token xi in x , we convert it into vector space by summing the token , segment , and position embeddings , thus yielding the input embeddings h 0 2 R ( n+2) ⇥ h , where h is the hidden size .
Next , we use a series of L stacked Transformer blocks to project the input embeddings into a sequence of contextual vectors h i 2 R ( n+2) ⇥ h as : h i = TransformerBlock(h i 1 ) , 8i 2 [ 1 , L ] Here , we omit an exhaustive description of the block architecture and refer readers to Vaswani et al .
( 2017 ) for more details .
Multi - Target Extractor .
Multi - target extractor aims to propose multiple candidate opinion targets ( Figure 3(a ) ) .
Rather than finding targets via sequence tagging methods , we detect candidate targets by predicting the start and end positions of the target in the sentence , as suggested in extractive question answering ( Wang and Jiang , 2017;Seo et al . , 2017;Hu et al . , 2018 ) .
We obtain the unnormalized score as well as the probability distribution of the start position as : g s = w s h L , p s = softmax(g s ) where w s 2 R h is a trainable weight vector .
Similarly , we can get the probability of the end position along with its confidence score by : g e = w e h L , p e = softmax(g e ) During training , since each sentence may contain multiple targets , we label the span boundaries for all target entities in the list T.
As a result , we can obtain a vector y s 2 R ( n+2 ) , where each element y s i indicates whether the i - th token starts a target , and also get another vector y e 2 R ( n+2 ) for labeling the end positions .
Then , we define the training objective as the sum of the negative log probabilities of the true start and end positions on two predicted probabilities as : L = X n+2 i=1 y s i log(p s i ) X n+2 j=1 y e j log(p e j ) At inference time , previous works choose the span ( k , l ) ( k  l ) with the maximum value of g s k + g e l as the final prediction .
However , such decoding method is not suitable for the multi - target extraction task .
Moreover , simply taking top - K spans according to the addition of two scores is also not optimal , as multiple candidates may refer to the same text .
Figure 4 gives a qualitative example to illustrate this phenomenon .
Sentence : Great food but the service was dreadful ! Targets : food , service Predictions : food but the service , food , Great food , service , service was dreadful , ...
To adapt to multi - target scenarios , we propose an heuristic multi - span decoding algorithm as shown in Algorithm 1 .
For each example , top - M indices are first chosen from the two predicted scores g s and g e ( line 2 ) , and the candidate span ( s i , e j ) ( denoted as r l ) along with its heuristicregularized score u l are then added to the lists R and U respectively , under the constraints that the end position is no less than the start position as well as the addition of two scores exceeds a threshold ( line 3 - 8) .
Note that we heuristically calculate u l as the sum of two scores minus the span length ( line 6 ) , which turns out to be critical to the performance as targets are usually short entities .
Next , we prune redundant spans in R using the non - maximum suppression algorithm ( Rosenfeld and Thurston , 1971 ) .
Specifically , we remove the span r l that possesses the maximum score u l from the set R and add it to the set O ( line 10 - 11 ) .
We also delete any span r k that is overlapped with r l , which is measured with the word - level F1 function ( line 12 - 14 ) .
This process is repeated for remaining spans in R , until R is empty or top - K target spans have been proposed ( line 9 ) .
Algorithm 1 Heuristic multi - span decoding .
Input : g s , g e , , K g s denotes the score of start positions g e denotes the score of end positions is a minimum score threshold K is the maximum number of proposed targets 1 : Initialize R , U , O = { } , { } , { } 2 : Get top - M indices S , E from g s , g e 3 : for si in S do 4 : for ej in E do 5 : if si  ej and g s s i + g e e j then 6 : u l = g s s i + g e e j ( ej si + 1 ) 7 : r l = ( si , ej ) 8 : R = R [ { r l } , U = U [ { u l } 9 : while R 6 = { } and size(O ) < K do 10 : l = arg max U 11 : O = O [ { r l } ; R = R { r l } ; U = U { u l } 12 : for r k in R do 13 : if f1(r l , r k ) 6 = 0 then 14 : R = R { r k } ; U = U { u k } 15 : return O.
Polarity Classifier .
Typically , polarity classification is solved using either sequence tagging methods or sophisticated neural networks that separately encode the target and the sentence .
Instead , we propose to summarize the target representation from contextual sentence vectors according to its span boundary , and use feed - forward neural networks to predict the sentiment polarity , as shown in Figure 3(b ) .
Specifically , given a target span r , we calculate a summarized vector v using the attention mechanism ( Bahdanau et al . , 2014 ) over tokens in its corrsponding bound ( s i , e j ) , similar to Lee et al .
( 2017 ) and He et al .
( 2018 ): ↵ = softmax(w ↵ h L s i : e j ) v = X e j t = s i ↵ t s i +1 h L t where w ↵ 2 R h is a trainable weight vector .
The polarity score is obtained by applying two linear transformations with a Tanh activation in between , and is normalized with the softmax function to output the polarity probability as : g p = W p tanh(W v v ) , p p = softmax(g p ) where W v 2 R h ⇥ h and W p 2 R k ⇥ h are two trainable parameter matrices .
We minimize the negative log probabilities of the true polarity on the predicted probability as : J = X k i=1 y p i log(p p i ) where y p is an one - hot label indicating the true polarity , and k is the number of sentiment classes .
During inference , the polarity probability is calculated for each candidate target span in the set O , and the sentiment class that possesses the maximum value in p p is chosen .
Model Variants .
Following Mitchell et al .
( 2013 ) ; Zhang et al .
( 2015 ) , we investigate three kinds of models under the extract - then - classify framework : Pipeline model We first build a multi - target extractor where a BERT encoder is exclusively used .
Then , a second backbone network is used to provide contextual sentence vectors for the polarity classifier .
Two models are separately trained and combined as a pipeline during inference .
Joint model In this model , each sentence is fed into a shared BERT backbone network that finally branches into two sibling output layers : one for proposing multiple candidate targets and another for predicting the sentiment polarity over each extracted target .
A joint training loss L + J is used to optimize the whole model .
The inference procedure is the same as the pipeline model .
Collapsed model .
We combine target span boundaries and sentiment polarities into one label space .
For example , the sentence in Figure 2(b ( 11- , 11- ) .
We then modify the multi - target extractor by producing three sets of probabilities of the start and end positions , where each set corresponds to one sentiment class ( e.g. , p s+ and p e+ for positive targets ) .
Then , we define three objectives to optimize towards each polarity .
During inference , the heuristic multi - span decoding algorithm is performed on each set of scores ( e.g. , g s+ and g e+ ) , and the output sets O + , O , and O 0 are aggregated as the final prediction .
Experiments .
Setup .
Datasets We conduct experiments on three benchmark sentiment analysis datasets , as shown in Table 1 .
LAPTOP contains product reviews from the laptop domain in SemEval 2014 ABSA challenges ( Pontiki et al . , 2014 ) .
REST is the union set of the restaurant domain from SemEval 2014 , 2015 and 2016 ( Pontiki et al . , 2015(Pontiki et al . , , 2016 ) ) .
TWITTER is built by Mitchell et al .
( 2013 ) , consisting of twitter posts .
Following Zhang et al .
( 2015 ) ; Li et al .
( 2019 ) , we report the ten - fold cross validation results for TWITTER , as there is no train - test split .
For each dataset , the gold target span boundaries are available , and the targets are labeled with three sentiment polarities , namely positive ( + ) , negative ( - ) , and neutral ( 0 ) .
Metrices We adopt the precision ( P ) , recall ( R ) , and F1 score as evaluation metrics .
A predicted target is correct only if it exactly matches the gold target entity and the corresponding polarity .
To separately analyze the performance of two subtasks , precision , recall , and F1 are also used for the target extraction subtask , while the accuracy ( ACC ) metric is applied to polarity classification .
and refer readers to Devlin et al .
( 2018 ) for details on model sizes .
We use Adam optimizer with a learning rate of 2e-5 and warmup over the first 10 % steps to train for 3 epochs .
The batch size is 32 and a dropout probability of 0.1 is used .
The number of candidate M is set as 20 while the maximum number of proposed targets K is 10 ( Algorithm 1 ) .
The threshold is manually tuned on each dataset .
All experiments are conducted on a single NVIDIA P100 GPU card .
Model settings .
Baseline Methods .
We compare the proposed span - based approach with the following methods : TAG-{pipeline , joint , collapsed } are the sequence tagging baselines that involve a BERT encoder and a CRF decoder .
" pipeline " and " joint " denote the pipeline and joint approaches that utilize the BIO and + /-/0 tagging schemes , while " collapsed " is the model following the collapsed tagging scheme ( Figure 2(a ) ) .
UNIFIED ( Li et al . , 2019 ) is the current stateof - the - art model on targeted sentiment analysis 3 .
It contains two stacked recurrent neural networks enhanced with multi - task learning and adopts the collapsed tagging scheme .
We also compare our multi - target extractor with the following method : DE - CNN ( Xu et al . , 2018 ) is the current stateof - the - art model on target extraction , which combines a double embeddings mechanism with convolutional neural networks ( CNNs ) 4 .
Finally , the polarity classifier is compared with the following methods : MGAN ( Fan et al . , 2018 ) uses a multi - grained attention mechanism to capture interactions between targets and sentences for polarity classification .
TNet ( Li et al . , 2018 ) is the current state - of - the - art model on polarity classification , which consists of a multi - layer context - preserving network architecture and uses CNNs as feature extractor 5 .
Main Results .
We compare models under either the sequence tagging scheme or the span - based labeling scheme , and show the results in Table 2 .
We denote our approach as " SPAN " , and use BERT LARGE as backbone networks for both the " TAG " and " SPAN " models to make the comparison fair .
Two main observations can be obtained from the Table .
First , despite that the " TAG " baselines already outperform previous best approach ( " UNIFIED " ) , they are all beaten by the " SPAN " methods .
The best span - based method achieves 1.55 % , 0.94 % and 3.43 % absolute gains on three datasets compared to the best tagging method , indicating the efficacy of our extract - then - classify framework .
Second , among the span - based methods , the SPAN - pipeline achieves the best performance , which is similar to the results of Mitchell et al .
( 2013 ) ; Zhang et al .
( 2015 ) .
This suggests that there is only a weak connection between target extraction and polarity classification .
The conclusion is also supported by the result of SPANcollapsed method , which severely drops across all datasets , implying that merging polarity labels into target spans does not address the task effectively .
Model .
Analysis on Target Extraction .
To analyze the performance on target extraction , we run both the tagging baseline and the multitarget extractor on three datasets , as shown in Table 3 .
We find that the BIO tagger outperforms our extractor on LAPTOP and REST .
A likely reason for this observation is that the lengths of input sentences on these datasets are usually small ( e.g. , 98 % of sentences are less than 40 words in REST ) , which limits the tagger 's search space ( the power set of all sentence words ) .
As a result , the computational complexity has been largely reduced , which is beneficial for the tagging method .
In order to confirm the above hypothesis , we plot the F1 score with respect to different sentence lengths in Figure 5 .
We observe that the performance of BIO tagger dramatically decreases as the sentence length increases , while our extractor is more robust for long sentences .
Our extractor manages to surpass the tagger by 16.1 F1 and 1.0 F1 when the length exceeds 40 on LAPTOP and REST , respectively .
The above result demonstrates that our extractor is more suitable for long sentences due to the fact that its search space only increases linearly with the sentence length .
Since a trade - off between precision and recall can be adjusted according to the threshold in our extractor , we further plot the precision - recall curves under different ablations to show the effects of heuristic multi - span decoding algorithm .
As can be seen from Figure 6 , ablating the length heuristics results in consistent performance drops across two datasets .
By sampling incorrect predictions we find that there are many targets closely aligned with each other , such as " perfect [ size ] + and [ speed ] + " , " [ portions ] + all at a reasonable [ price ] + " , and so on .
The model without length heuristics is very likely to output the whole phrase as a single target , thus being totally wrong .
Moreover , removing the non - maximum suppression ( NMS ) leads to significant performance degradations , suggesting that it is crucial to prune redundant spans that refer to the same text .
Analysis on Polarity Classification .
To assess the polarity classification subtask , we compare the performance of our span - level polarity classifier with the CRF - based tagger in Table 5 .
The results show that our approach significantly outperforms the tagging baseline by achieving 9.97 % , 8.15 % and 15.4 % absolute gains on three datasets , and firmly surpasses previous stateof - the - art models on LAPTOP .
The large improvement over the tagging baseline suggests that detecting sentiment with the entire span representation is much more beneficial than predicting polarities over each word , as the semantics of the given target has been fully considered .
To gain more insights on performance improvements , we plot the accuracy of both methods with respect to different target lengths in Figure 7 .
We find that the accuracy of span - level classifier only drops a little as the number of words increases on the LAPTOP and REST datasets .
The performance of tagging baseline , however , significantly decreases as the target becomes longer .
It demonstrates that the tagging method indeed suffers from the sentiment inconsistency problem when it comes to multi - word target entities .
Our span - based method , on the contrary , can naturally alleviate such problem because the polarity is classified by taking all target words into account .
Case Study .
Table 4 shows some qualitative cases sampled from the pipeline methods .
As observed in the first two examples , the " TAG " model incorrectly predicts the target span by either missing the word " Mac " or proposing a phrase across two targets ( " scallps and prawns " ) .
A likely reason of its failure is that the input sentences are relatively longer , and the tagging method is less effective when dealing with them .
But when it comes to shorter inputs ( e.g. , the third and the fourth examples ) , the tagging baseline usually performs better than our approach .
We find that our approach may sometimes fail to propose target entities ( e.g. , " adjustments " in ( 3 ) and " feel " in ( 4 ) ) , which is due to the fact that a relatively large has been set .
As a result , the model only makes cautious but confident predictions .
In contrast , the tagging method does not rely on a threshold and is observed to have a higher recall .
For example , it additionally predicts the entity " food " as a target in the second example .
Moreover , we find that the tagging method sometimes fails to predict the correct sen- timent class , especially when the target consists of multiple words ( e.g. , " battery cycle count " in ( 5 ) and " Casa La Femme " in ( 6 ) ) , indicating the tagger can not effectively maintain sentiment consistency across words .
Our polarity classifier , however , can avoid such problem by using the target span representation to predict the sentiment .
Conclusion .
We re - examine the drawbacks of sequence tagging methods in open - domain targeted sentiment analysis , and propose an extract - then - classify framework with the span - based labeling scheme instead .
The framework contains a pre - trained Transformer encoder as the backbone network .
On top of it , we design a multi - target extractor for proposing multiple candidate targets with an heuristic multispan decoding algorithm , and introduce a polarity classifier that predicts the sentiment towards each candidate using its summarized span representation .
Our approach firmly outperforms the sequence tagging baseline as well as previous stateof - the - art methods on three benchmark datasets .
Model analysis reveals that the main performance improvement comes from the span - level polarity classifier , and the multi - target extractor is more .
Acknowledgments .
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insightful feedback .
We also thank Li Dong for his helpful comments and suggestions .
This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China ( 2016YFB1000101 ) .
Sentence .
TAG SPAN suitable for long sentences .
Moreover , we find that the pipeline model consistently surpasses both the joint model and the collapsed model .
